Let's talk about decisions and
conditionals.
This is kind of the class,
shall I stay or shall I go?
If I stay there will be trouble,
if I go there will be double.
This is a very, very simple module.
It just comes down to
if something is true or
false, then you perform some actions.
So does true equal true?
Does batman.secretidentity == Bruce Wayne?
Does client ID equal payload ID or not?
And so all of the conditions that
we encounter in our code and
ironically in life, really comes down
to is this condition true or false?
Even when you are looking at,
I have multiple options to take,
I'm at a crossroads and should I go here
or should I take door number 1, 2 or 3?
Well ultimately, your choice of
that door is going to depend on you
determining the condition that's
going to affect your final decision,
and if that's true or false,
then that affects your action.
So one of the most common
ways that I use conditions,
is in a container component
if I'm saving an object, and
I'll just say does this have
a client ID or does this have an ID?
If it does, then I update it,
else, I will create it.
And so here I'm saying, if this doesn't
have a client ID, do this else do this.
Now another form of this and as we start
to move into kind of this brave new world
of type script with kind of functional
programming in the middle of operations,
is that you will see
this ternary operator.
Which is the conditioned exists
around client ID equals payload ID.
And if that evaluates to true, then
the left side of the colon is executed.
If it evaluates to false,
then the right side is and so
this is a very shorthand
way to do if else.
Now, this is one that I quite like,
because we are faced with more than
one possible option at any given time.
This is life, this is what
switch cases were invented for.
So in this case, imagine a calculator,
and you're given two numbers and
then an operation parameter.
And then based on that operation,
you're either going to add it, subtract,
multiply, divide it or just return 42
because that is always the answer.
And so this allows us to go through and
say here is kind of a table
of possible options, and
then based on the cases available,
so you're still evaluating to true or
false.
And so if the operation equals add,
then that's what you're going to do.
Okay, so that was, I feel like if you
ever been standing it like a platform and
a train station, the train just slips by,
that's kinda what that just felt like.
So we're done waxing the train,
let's get down to business.